Tutorial split (#145)
pretix/pretix-docs: docs/tutorial/continuous-operation/products.md

# Products

A product is anything sold via pretix: tickets, gift cards, t-shirts and so on.
We will be selling a variety of products in our shop.
In this article, we will cover the process of creating the following products and making them available in our shop:

 - a basic [admission ticket](products.md#creating-and-editing-products)
 - a [discount ticket](products.md#discount-ticket) for students and members
 - a ticket for our [guided tour](#guided-tour-ticket)

>  - [stickers](products.md#product-with-variants) that come in three variants with different prices

Reviewer: > - [stickers](products.md#product-with-variants) that come in three variants with different prices

Ja, Museen verkaufen im Zweifelsfall viele Dinge, aber Sticker in Varianten mit zum Ticket dazu? Schon eher ungewöhnlich. 
Wie wäre es mit gedruckten guide books in verschiedenen Sprachen oder meinetwegen Postkarten in limitierter Auflage (dann eher Kunstmuseum oder so wahrscheinlich)?

We are going to start by [creating categories](products.md#creating-and-editing-categories) to sort our products into.
Then, we will create the products themselves.
Lastly, we are going to [create quotas](products.md#creating-and-editing-quotas) to determine and keep track of availability numbers for each product.

## Creating and editing categories

![Page titled 'Product categories', showing a list of categories only containing 'Tickets' and a button for creating a new category.](../../assets/screens/products/categories.png "Product categories screenshot")

Categories can help us group products into sensible categories both in the backend and in our shop.
They also separate standalone products from add-on products.
We are not only going to sell admission tickets in our shop, but also extras such as stickers.
That means our next step is to create a category for those extras.

For that, we will navigate to our personal dashboard by clicking :btn-icon:i-pretix: pretix.eu: in the top left corner of the website.

> We will then select our event in the list of "Your upcoming events", open :btn-icon:fa3-ticket: Products: in the sidebar and click the :btn:Categories: subentry.

Reviewer: > We will then select our event in the list of "Your upcoming events", open :btn-icon:fa3-ticket: Products: in the sidebar and click the :btn:Categories: subentry.

Which event? Wir haben bislang eine Veranstaltungsreihe ohne Termine angelegt.

## Creating and editing products

![Page titled 'Products', showing a list of products containing two entries and a button for creating a new product.](../../assets/screens/products/products.png "Products screenshot")

Now that we have prepared the necessary categories for our products, we can edit the existing products and create new ones to suit our needs.

First, we will edit the "Regular ticket" so that we can base all other tickets on this one.
In order to do so, we will navigate to :navpath:Event → :fa3-ticket: Products → Products:.
The website should display two tickets that pretix created automatically along with the event: "Regular ticket" and "Reduced ticket".
We will click "Regular ticket", which takes us to the "Modify product" dialog.

We will change the English item name to `Regular admission` and provide a German translation.
We are going to add the following description:
`Regular ticket granting access to the museum.`
Next, we will click the :btn:Price: tab and change the "Default price" to €10.00.
We will also select the appropriate tax rate of 19% from the "Sales tax" drop-down menu.

> !!! Note

Reviewer: > !!! Note

diese Note kam auch schon unter Event; warum ist das dann eigentlich kein include?

    Every tax rate you assign to a product, you have to create first.
    If there are multiple different tax rates that apply to your products, create one tax rate for each of them.
    If you are selling products with a 0% tax rate (such as [gift cards](../../guides/gift-cards.md)), you still need to create a 0% tax rule first.
    For more information, see our guide on [creating tax rules](../../guides/taxes.md#creating-tax-rules).

Once we have done so, we are going to click the :btn:Save: button.

### Discount ticket

![Page titled 'Create product', showing options such as item name, copy product information, product type and personalization.](../../assets/screens/products/create.png "Create product screenshot")

> We will now create the discount ticket based on the "Standard ticket" we edited in the previous step.

Reviewer: > We will now create the discount ticket based on the "Standard ticket" we edited in the previous step.

Entweder "Regular ticket" oder "Regular admission" oder 
> "Regular admission" ticket

> There are two advantages to this approach: First, we do not have to repeat all the same steps, and second, we are reducing our risk of forgetting any of them.

Reviewer: > There are two advantages to this approach: First, we do not have to repeat all the same steps, and second, we are reducing our risk of forgetting any of them.

Der einzige Schritt, der in dem Beispiel wegfällt, ist gerade das Auswählen des Steuersatzes, oder?

Reviewer: Anmerkung vgl. single-events zu diesem Thema

> We do not need the "Reduced ticket" anymore.

Reviewer: > We do not need the "Reduced ticket" anymore.

Nicht so richtig zutreffend, wenn wir noch kein rabattiertes Ticket erstellt haben, oder?

Reviewer: Vorschlag vgl. single-event

We will navigate to the products page, click the red :btn-icon:fa3-trash:: delete button next to the reduced ticket, and confirm that we want to delete it.

Back on the product overview, we will click the :btn-icon:fa3-copy:: clone button next to the standard ticket in order to clone it.
We will name the new ticket "Discounted admission", provide a translation, change the "Default price" to €8.00, and click the :btn:Save: button.

!!! Note

>     A warning is now displayed in a yellow box at the top of the page, saying:

Reviewer: >    A warning is now displayed in a yellow box at the top of the page, saying:

Erst nach Erstellung des zweiten Produkts?

    "Please note that your product will not be available for sale until you have added your item to an existing or newly created quota."
    This warning will also appear during the creation of subsequent products.
    We can safely **ignore it** for now because we will take care of adding products to quotas in the next section of this article.
    That will make the warning disappear.

On the next page, we have to adjust the "Description" field to inform our customers of the prerequisites for access to the discounted ticket.
Our description reads:

> "This ticket is only valid if you provide a student ID at check-in."

Reviewer: > "This ticket is only valid if you provide a student ID at check-in."

Oben in der Auflistung der Schritte schriebst du "students and members". Letztere sind jetzt hier weggefallen.

We will then switch to the :btn:Price: tab.
We will change the "Default price" to €8.00 and the original price to the price of the regular admission ticket, that is, €10.00.
Our shop will display the original price struck-through and the new default price in bold green, highlighting the price discount.

Then, we will navigate to the :btn:Check-in and validity: tab and check the box next to "Requires special attention".
We have to provide instructions for the person operating the check-in at our event in the "Check-in text" field.
Our instructions say: `Check for student ID`.
We will then click the :btn:Save: button.

### Guided tour ticket

We are going to create another ticket for our guided tour.
In order to do so, we will navigate to the products page and click the :btn-icon:fa3-plus: Create a new product: button.
We will name our new ticket "Guided tour" and provide a German translation.
Then, will change the "Default price" to €15.00 and select the appropriate tax rate of 19% from the "Sales tax" drop-down menu.

> We can leave all other settings on this page unchanged and click the :btn:Save and continue with more settings: button.

Reviewer: > We can leave all other settings on this page unchanged and click the :btn:Save and continue with more settings: button.

Der Beschreibungstext sollte auf jeden Fall noch angepasst werden.

### Product with variants

![Page titled 'Modify product: Sticker', the 'Variations' tab is open, showing settings for the 'Standard' variant: Variation (name), default and original price, description.](../../assets/screens/products/products.png "Product variations screenshot")

> After having created all the admission products we need, we will now create a sticker product with multiple variants: purple, black, and glitter.

Reviewer: > After having created all the admission products we need, we will now create a sticker product with multiple variants: purple, black, and glitter.

Oder eben keine Sticker, s.o.

This page shows the list of all quotas for the event.
At the moment, this includes the "Regular ticket" quota, containing the standard ticket as a product, and the "Reduced ticket" quota, not containing any ticket.
The list also displays the total capacity and how many items remain for each quota.

### Quotas for tickets

![Page titled 'Quotas', displaying a list of quotas including the reduced ticket quota with a capacity of 50 and the regular ticket quota with a capacity of 100.](../../assets/screens/products/quotas.png "Quotas screenshot")

First, we will edit a quota for our standard and discount tickets.
It makes sense to include both tickets in a single quota because we cannot plan ahead how many of the tickets we sell are going to be discount tickets.
We will click the :btn-icon:fa3-edit:: change button next to the "Regular ticket" quota in the list.
We are also going to rename this quota to `Standard and discount ticket` to avoid confusion.
The "Standard ticket" should already be checked in the list of products.

We will also check the "Discount ticket" in the list and change the capacity to 1900.
That is the maximum amount of tickets of these types that we want to sell.

> Our venue has room for 2000 people, 100 of which are going to be speakers.

Reviewer: > Our venue has room for 2000 people, 100 of which are going to be speakers.

Im Museum bezweifle ich das.

We will leave the rest of the settings unchanged and click the :btn:Save: button.
This takes us to a detailed overview of the status of the "Standard ticket" quota.

Since this quota now includes both the standard and discount tickets, we do not need the "Reduced ticket" quota anymore.
We will navigate back to the quotas page and click the :btn-icon:fa3-trash:: delete button next to the "Reduced ticket" quota.

> We need to assign our speaker ticket to a quota, too.

Reviewer: > We need to assign our speaker ticket to a quota, too.

Nein. Aber das "Guided tour"-Ticket.

We do not want this quota to add to the total number of tickets available for the event.
Thus, we are going to check the box next to "Ignore this quota when determining event availability" before clicking the :btn:Save: button.

Since we still need quotas for the other variants of the product, we will navigate back to the quotas page and click the :btn-icon:fa3-copy:: clone button next to the sticker quota we created in the previous step.
We will name the new quota `Sticker Black`, unselect "Sticker - Purple" from the list of products and select "Sticker - Black" instead.
Finally, we will click :btn:Save: and repeat the same process for the glitter color, adjusting the total capacity as needed.

We will now navigate back to the "Products" page, open the "Sticker" product and click the :btn:Variations: tab.
There should be no more yellow boxes warning us that we need to add the product and variants to a quota before we can sell them.

## Conclusion

We have created all the tickets and other products that we are planning to sell in our shop, sorted them into categories, and added them to quotas.

> In the next step, we are going to create [dates](dates.md) for which our customers can buy those products.

Reviewer: > In the next step, we are going to create [dates](dates.md) for which our customers can buy those products.

Die Implikation, dass die Sticker (mit denen ich ja ohnehin nicht so glücklich bin) nur zu bestimmten Terminen gekauft werden können, erscheint auch nicht ganz so sinnvoll.

Next, we will click the :btn:Price: tab and change the "Default price" to €10.00.
We will also select the appropriate tax rate of 19% from the "Sales tax" drop-down menu.

{% include "note-tax-rules.md" %}

Once we have done so, we are going to click the :btn:Save: button.

### Discount ticket

![Page titled 'Create product', showing options such as item name, copy product information, product type and personalization.](../../assets/screens/products/create.png "Create product screenshot")

We will now create the discount ticket based on the "Regular admission" ticket we edited in the previous step.
There are two advantages to this approach: First, we do not have to repeat all the same steps, and second, we are reducing our risk of forgetting any of them.

> We do not need the "Reduced ticket" anymore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will not be needing the "Reduced ticket" anymore.
```

We will click the :btn-icon:fa3-edit:: change button next to the "Regular ticket" quota in the list.
We are also going to rename this quota to `Standard and discount admission` to avoid confusion.
The "Regular admission ticket" should already be checked in the list of products.

We will also check the "Discounted admission ticket" in the list and remove the entry in the "Total capacity" field.
This means that there will not be a limit on how many of these tickets we can sell.
We are planning to sell these tickets for the entire 2027 season, not for a single date.
Thus, it makes no sense to limit the total number.

We will leave the rest of the settings unchanged and click the :btn:Save: button.
This takes us to a detailed overview of the status of the "Standard ticket" quota.

Since this quota now includes both the standard and discount admission tickets, we do not need the "Reduced ticket" quota anymore.
We will navigate back to the quotas page and click the :btn-icon:fa3-trash:: delete button next to the "Reduced ticket" quota.

Our "Guided tour" product will be part of one quota per date.

> We will create those quotas along with the dates later.

Reviewer: > We will create those quotas along with the dates later.

Cut for time?
